---
description: >-
  The Date/Time component allows for date and time selections to be made through
  a variety of options.
---

# Date/Time

The date component allows selections to be made using a popup calendar or through the use of a formatted input. The formatted input will restrict the user to only potential date values (e.g. 1 to 31 for days) and is based on the users locale. The final displayed format of the date is also based on the users locale, so users will see their selection in the format that makes sense to them.

Below are the properties for the date component:

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="204">Property</th><th width="238">Type</th><th width="108">Default</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>value</td><td>string | Date | Date[]</td><td>undefined</td><td>The starting value of the component</td></tr><tr><td>readOnly</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>Determines if the component can be edited</td></tr><tr><td>label</td><td>string</td><td>undefined</td><td>The label for the component</td></tr><tr><td>useDefaultDateValue</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>If a value is not assigned this determines if the value should be defaulted to the current date</td></tr><tr><td>useFormattedInput</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>When true the input will format and validate the input based on the users locale.</td></tr><tr><td>allowClear</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>When true the clear button will allow the value to be erased.</td></tr><tr><td>locale</td><td>string</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows the caller to override the locale to use for the component.</td></tr><tr><td>className</td><td>string</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows styles to be applied to the component by the caller.</td></tr><tr><td>dateSelection</td><td><a href="date-time-types.md">DateSelectionType</a></td><td>DateTime</td><td>Determines the type of date selection allowed. Values are DateTime, DateOnly, TimeOnly and DateRange.</td></tr><tr><td>dateFormat</td><td><a href="date-time-types.md">DateFormatType</a></td><td>undefined</td><td>Determines how the selected date is formatted in the input. Values are Short, Medium and Long.</td></tr><tr><td>timeConstraints</td><td><a href="date-time-types.md">TimeConstraints</a></td><td>undefined</td><td>When the time selector is used this determines how certain values are incremented.</td></tr><tr><td>icon</td><td>JSX.Element</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows a custom selector icon to be used.</td></tr><tr><td>iconPosition</td><td><a href="date-time-types.md">CalendarIconPosition</a></td><td>Right</td><td>Determines if the selector icon is displayed on the left or right.</td></tr><tr><td>inputElement</td><td>HTMLElement</td><td>undefined</td><td>When a custom input template is used this sets the input reference. This is needed to detect when the input has focus, so the selector can be displayed.</td></tr><tr><td>selectableDate</td><td>(Date) => boolean</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows for dates in the selector to be disabled when the function returns false.</td></tr><tr><td>isValidDate</td><td>(Date) => boolean</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows for a typed or selected date to not populate the input when the function returns false.</td></tr><tr><td>onChange</td><td>(Date | Date[] | undefined) => void</td><td>undefined</td><td>Fired when a date is typed or selected in the component. If the date is cleared undefined is returned.</td></tr><tr><td>calendarTemplate</td><td>DateTimeCalendarTemplate</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows a caller to provide their own calendar markup or make additions to the markup.</td></tr><tr><td>dateScrollerTemplate</td><td>DateTimeScrollerTemplate</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows a caller to provide their own scroller markup or make additions to the markup.</td></tr><tr><td>inputTemplate</td><td>DateTimeInputTemplate</td><td>undefined</td><td>Allows a caller to provide their own input markup or make additions to the markup.</td></tr></tbody></table>
