---
description: Documentation for the overlay panel
---

# Overlay Panel

The overlay panel allows markup to be placed within it and will display that markup in a hovered state on top of the site where it is used. One of the main uses of the overlay panel is to display selectors for components such as the Date/Time component. Below are the properties for the Overlay Panel and what they are used for, required properties have a different text format.

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="242">Property</th><th width="207">Type</th><th width="208">Default</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>visible</code></td><td>boolean</td><td></td><td><code>true</code> sets the Overlay Panel visible</td></tr><tr><td>target</td><td>React.MouseEvent | HTMLElement | Element | null</td><td></td><td>The markup element used to position the overlay panel. This will usually be an input of some type.</td></tr><tr><td>targetPosition</td><td><a href="overlay-panel-types.md">DomTargetPosition</a></td><td>BottomLeft</td><td>The part of the target used to position the overlay, combined with the <code>elementAlignment</code> this will determine where the overlay is shown.</td></tr><tr><td>elementAlignment</td><td><a href="overlay-panel-types.md">DomElementAlignment</a></td><td>TopLeft</td><td>The part of the overlay to position to the target. The default TopLeft will position the most top and left point to the target.</td></tr><tr><td>shouldTargetCloseOverlay</td><td>boolean</td><td>true</td><td>Determines if clicking the target should cause the overlay to close. In a component using a selector this should usually be set to false.</td></tr><tr><td>shouldMatchTargetWidth</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>When true this will cause the overlay to be the same width as the target. This is useful for component selectors.</td></tr><tr><td>shouldScrollCloseOverlay</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>When true this will cause the overlay to close when the user scrolls either the page or the scrollable markup the overlay is contained within.</td></tr><tr><td>shouldCheckZIndex</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>When true this will make sure the overlay panel contains the top z-index on the entire page. This does not necessarily guarantee it will be displayed above everything else.</td></tr><tr><td>shouldRemainOnScreen</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>When true this will make sure that the entire overlay is display on screen.</td></tr><tr><td>unmountWhenHidden</td><td>boolean</td><td>false</td><td>When true the overlay component, and its child components, will be destroyed when the overlay is hidden.</td></tr><tr><td>transitionDuration</td><td>number</td><td>400</td><td>This is the speed (in milliseconds) of the hide and show transitions.</td></tr><tr><td>showTransitionOptions</td><td>string</td><td>cubic-bezier(0, 0, 0.2, 1)</td><td>The show transition function.</td></tr><tr><td>hideTransitionOptions</td><td>string</td><td>linear</td><td>The hide transition function.</td></tr><tr><td>shown</td><td>() => void</td><td></td><td>Called when the overlay is fully shown.</td></tr><tr><td>hidden</td><td>() => void</td><td></td><td>Called when the overlay is fully hidden.</td></tr><tr><td>isClickedWithin</td><td>() => void</td><td></td><td>Called when a click originates within the overlay.</td></tr><tr><td><code>children</code></td><td>ReactNode | ReactNode[]</td><td></td><td>The markup to display inside the overlay.</td></tr></tbody></table>
